# 1.5-card - Ponix + any FIRE monster (without Princess)

## Requirements:
- Cards in hand:
  - [_Legendary Fire King Ponix_]
  - Any FIRE that is not [_Fire King High Avatar Kirin_] or [_Fire King Avatar Arvata_] - for those two see the [2-card Ponix combo] instead.
- Cards in Main Deck:
  - [_Fire King Sanctuary_]
  - [_Fire King Island_]
  - [_Sacred Fire King Garunix_]
  - 2x [_Fire King High Avatar Kirin_]
- Cards in Extra Deck:
  - [_Salamangreat Almiraj_]
  - [_Duelittle Chimera_]

## When to perform this combo
This combo is a variation on the main [1.5-card Ponix combo],
for players who do not have access to Promethean Princess.

It aims to end on [_Duelittle Chimera_] and [_Salamangreat Almiraj_],
relying on your other interruptions (handtraps and regular traps) and
banking on the opponent not having any non-destructive removal handy in order to
generate card advantage upon Duelittle being destroyed by battle.

## Steps:

**Your turn:**
- Normal Summon [_Legendary Fire King Ponix_].
- Activate Ponix's effect to search [_Fire King Sanctuary_].
- Activate Sanctuary from hand, place [_Fire King Island_] in Field Zone.
- Link Summon [_Salamangreat Almiraj_] using Ponix as material.
- Activate Island, destroy the FIRE monster in hand and add [_Sacred Fire King Garunix_] from deck to hand.
- Activate Sacred Garunix's effect to Special Summon itself.
- Activate Sacred Garunix's effect to destroy [_Fire King High Avatar Kirin_].
- Activate Kirin's effect to Special Summon Ponix from GY.
- Link Summon [_Duelittle Chimera_] using Sacred Garunix and Ponix.

**Opponent's turn:**
- During their Main Phase, activate Almiraj's effect to protect Duelittle.
- Use your interruptions (if you drew any).
- If everything goes well, they will eventually enter Battle Phase and attack Duelittle, destroying it.
  - Activate Duelittle's effect, returning High Kirin to the hand.
  - Activate Sacred Garunix's effect from GY, to Special Summon itself.
  - Activate Sacred Garunix's effect to destroy another High Kirin from deck.
  - Activate High Kirin's effect from GY, to Special Summon Ponix in Defense Position, and destroy an opponent's card.
  - Activate Ponix's effect to add a Fire King spell to the hand.

# Notes:
- This endboard relies on very much wishful thinking, your opponent could have
different ways to remove Duelittle without battling or destroying it. Save your handtraps to prevent those.
- Any interruptions from your opponent can end this combo immediately.
- It also plays into Nibiru, Duelittle's summon being exactly the 5th.
- However, if it goes well, it's a potential +3 that gives you material for Turn 3 plays.

[1.5-card Ponix combo]: ./1.5-card-ponix.md
[2-card Ponix combo]: ./2-card-ponix.md
{{#include ../links.md}}
