# 1.5-card - Ulcanix + any FIRE monster

## Requirements:
- In hand:
  - [_Fire King Courtier Ulcanix_]
  - Any FIRE monster
- In main deck:
  - [_Legendary Fire King Ponix_]
  - [_Sacred Fire King Garunix_]
  - [_Fire King High Avatar Garunix_]
  - [_Fire King Avatar Arvata_]
  - [_Fire King High Avatar Kirin_] (if Arvata is your FIRE monster)
  - [_Fire King Sanctuary_]
  - [_Fire King Island_]
- In the Extra Deck:
  - [_Salamangreat Sunlight Wolf_]
  - [_Promethean Princess, Bestower of Flames_]
  - [_Amphibious Swarmship Amblowhale_]
  - For Route 1, [_I:P Masquerena_] (and a valid card to Link her into, like [_S:P Little Knight_], or [_Knightmare Unicorn_]), or a Link-2 of your choice.
  - For Route 2, [_Relinquished Anima_]

## When to perform this combo
Whenever you have Ulcanix and a FIRE monster in hand (even if it's Ponix).

If you have Arvata, you are protected from Nibiru provided you don't meet other interruptions.

## Steps:
- Normal Summon [_Fire King Courtier Ulcanix_].
- Activate Ulcanix's effect, destroying the FIRE monster in your hand to search [_Legendary Fire King Ponix_].
- Activate Ponix's first effect, to Special Summon itself from the hand.
- Activate Ponix's second effect, to add [_Fire King Sanctuary_] from deck to hand.
- Activate Sanctuary, place [_Fire King Island_] in the Field Zone.
- Activate Island, destroying Ulcanix for [_Sacred Fire King Garunix_].
- A chain forms with Sacred Garunix and Ulcanix:
  - Ulcanix Special Summons [_Fire King High Avatar Garunix_] from deck.
  - Sacred Garunix Special Summons itself from hand.
- Activate Sacred Garunix's second effect to destroy [_Fire King Avatar Arvata_] from deck.
  - If the FIRE monster you destroyed with Ulcanix was Arvata, destroy [_Fire King High Avatar Kirin_] instead.

### Route 1 - sets up a Link-2 in GY to revive with Amblowhale
1. Activate Arvata/High Kirin after being destroyed by Sacred Garunix, to Special Summon Ulcanix from GY.
2. Link Summon [_Salamangreat Sunlight Wolf_] using any 2 monsters.
3. Link Summon a Link-2 of your choice (usually [_I:P Masquerena_]) under Sunlight Wolf, using the other two monsters.
4. Sunlight Wolf effect to add a FIRE monster from GY to hand.
5. Link Summon [_Promethean Princess, Bestower of Flames_] using Sunlight Wolf and the Link-2.
6. Activate Princess effect to Special Summon a FIRE from GY.
7. Link Summon [_Amphibious Swarmship Amblowhale_] using Princess and the FIRE monster.

### Route 2 - trades the Link-2 in GY for a negate with Arvata
1. Activate Arvata/High Kirin after being destroyed by Sacred Garunix, to Special Summon Ulcanix from GY.
2. Link Summon [_Salamangreat Sunlight Wolf_] using any 2 monsters, **except Ponix**.
3. Link Summon [_Relinquished Anima_] using Ponix, in the zone under Sunlight Wolf.
4. Sunlight Wolf effect to add a FIRE monster from GY to hand, **except Arvata**.
5. Link Summon [_Promethean Princess, Bestower of Flames_] using Sunlight Wolf and Anima.
6. Activate Princess effect to Special Summon Arvata from GY.
7. (Optionally) Link Summon [_Amphibious Swarmship Amblowhale_] using Princess and the remaining monster besides Arvata.

### Route 2, extended - if Arvata was the FIRE monster; can play into Nibiru and negate it
1. Activate High Kirin after being destroyed by Sacred Garunix, to Special Summon Arvata from GY. This is the 5th summon, so Nibiru is now online.
2. If Nibiru is activated, negate with Arvata and **destroy Sacred Garunix**.
3. Resume Route 2 by Link Summoning [_Salamangreat Sunlight Wolf_] with High Garunix and Arvata, and continuing with Step 3.

## Notes
You should have most of the interruptions from the [1.5-card Ponix combo].
If all goes well you will also have an [_I:P Masquerena_] or an Arvata alongside them.

## Chokepoints
- The same issues from the previous two combos apply to this one. Ulcanix, Ponix and Island can be easily negated and will stop your combo.
- If Sacred Garunix is negated on the field, you have 3 monsters on the field, so you can make Sunlight Wolf and Anima, then Link into Princess.
  You just won't be able to get Arvata on the field.
- If Sunlight Wolf is destroyed before you can summon the other Link monster, you are left with 2 monsters on the field and little way to progress.
  If your opponent has a FIRE monster in their GY, look to summon [_Hiita the Fire Charmer, Ablaze_] and steal it, so you can make Princess and Amblowhale.

{{#include ../links.md}}
[1.5-card Ponix combo]: ./1.5-card-ponix.md#notes
